SOURCE
Dian Knwo,  can Facebook’s machine learning accurately predict suicide.
https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/can-facebooks-machine-learning-algorithms-accurately-predict-suicide/

AGENT
Scientific American. It is an American popular science magazine where famous scientists have contributed to in the past 170 years. It is also known as the oldest continuosly published magazine monthly in the US.

GOAL
On many social media sites and platforms such as twitter and Facebook, these companies have the capability to use machine learning algorithms to extract data from their user database to possibly save lives. These companies have to ability to flag, identify and search out posts which have possible threat to life issues present. The main objective is to use algorithms to identify and gather information on users who may have suicidal behaviour based on the information they present online. Once algorithms can detect suicidal/ self harm risks for texts, more sophisticated algorithms could be developed to resolve cases in a more audio/visual manner.

DATA
The social media Facebook have millions of users logging in every day. They use pychographics to categorize and analyse each user's preferences and personalities with advanced prediction algorithms in the areas of marketing, advertising and information dispersal. In the US, 71% of Facebook users are teens that are under the age of seventeen.

METHODS
The main algorithms which can be used are two main possible methods. The actual words and texts that a user uses in their post as well in the comments section can be taken into possibly reliable data for self-harm or suicidal risk assessment of the user's mental condition. When the algortihm detects any possiblity of risk or harm, a flag or report could be sent to Facebook admins to which they could personally view and assess the credibility of the report, to determine whether there is a genuine risk or not in terms of user self- harm. Data can be collected on the user in relation to whom they have connected with, they login times as well as what have been said in regards to their reactions or other people's reactions to posts present of Facebook which they have enaged with.

RESULTS
Large amounts of data can be gathered in relation to user self-harm risk evaluation. This data consists of texts and images in relation to the user and the possibility that they are liable to fit into the risk of self-harm category. These algorithms can give further depth and information where user's facial expression can depict a state of character or state of mind and where submitted comments can give insight to whether the person is liable to suicide. 

COMMENTS
The advancements and improvements for algorithms in machine learning can certainly help humans and prevent many occassions of possible self-harming behaviours if authorities could be informed in faster time, with more accuracy and with more accurate predictive algorithms. These algortihms could further alleviate the issues concerning online harrassment, in-appropiate posts, violent promoting posts and help make social media a more protected and safer environment for users globally in general.


