SOURCE
By Aaron S. Jackson, Adrian Bulat, Vasileios Argyriou, Georgios Tzimiropoulos
https://arxiv.org/pdf/1703.07834.pdf

AGENT
The University of Nottingham, UK and Kingston University, UK 

GOAL
Given a single 2D picture of ones face, a 3D enviroment is to be created that can be explored.
In other words ->
It should be able to reconstruct the whole 3D facial geometry
(including the non-visible parts of the face) bypassing
the construction (during the training) and fitting (during testing)
of a 3D Morphable Model.

DATA
the method requires an appropriate dataset consisting of 2D images and 3D facial scans. As the
target is to apply the method on completely unconstrained images from the web, the dataset: 
P. Paysan, R. Knothe, B. Amberg, S. Romdhani, and T. Vetter.
A 3d face model for pose and illumination invariant face
recognition. In AVSS, 2009 was chosen.
The dataset of X. Zhu, Z. Lei, X. Liu, H. Shi, and S. Z. Li. Face alignment
across large poses: A 3d solution. 2016 was chosen for forming the training and test sets. 

METHODS
3DMM - 3D Morphable Model
In the 3DMM, the most popular approach for estimating the full 3D facial structure
from a single image, training includes an iterative flow procedure for dense image correspondence
which is prone to failure. 
The work of I. Kemelmacher-Shlizerman and R. Basri. 3d face reconstruction
from a single image using a single reference face
shape. IEEE TPAMI, 33(2):394–405, 2011, a popular approach for 2.5D reconstruction
from a single image, formulates and solves a
carefully initialised (for frontal images only) non-convex
optimization problem for recovering the lighting, depth,
and albedo in an alternating manner where each of the
sub-problems is a difficult optimization problem per se.
The method of J. Roth, Y. Tong, and X. Liu. Adaptive 3d face reconstruction
from unconstrained photo collections. In CVPR, 2016.
that
produces the average (neutral) 3D face from a collection
of personal photos, firstly performs landmark detection,
then fits a 3DMM using a sparse set of points, then solves
an optimization problem similar to the one in I. Kemelmacher-Shlizerman and S. M. Seitz. Face reconstruction
in the wild. In ICCV, 2011., then performs surface normal estimation as in I. Kemelmacher-Shlizerman and 
S. M. Seitz. Face reconstruction in the wild. In ICCV, 2011; and finally performs surface reconstruction 
by solving another energy minimisation problem.

RESULTS
Results show that the proposed networks performed well for the whole spectrum of facial pose, and can deal
with facial expressions as well as occlusions. Also compared the performance of our networks 
against that of recent state-of-the-art methods based on 3DMM fitting reporting large performance 
improvement on three different datasets. Future work may include improving detail and establishing
a fixed correspondence from the isosurface of the mesh.

COMMENTS
The deep learning of a mapping from pixels to 3D coordinates using a Convolutional Neural Network
(CNN).
