SOURCE
http://yokozunadata.com/research/MultiDimChurnPrediction.pdf
By Paul Bertens, Anna Guitart and Africa Perianez

AGENT
Three publicly traded Japanese publishers and a South Korean developer have signed up to use the product.
Declining to give their names because of confidentiality agreements.


GOAL
For a comprehensive solution to the churn prediction challenge
from several perspectives and dimensions, helping to fully
understand and anticipate player attrition.
Ie, to predict when a player will leave a game and 
how long they will spend playing up to that point.

DATA
The data consisted of player action logs collected between
2014 and 2017 from a major mobile social game, Age of Ishtaria, developed by Silicon Studio. 
The predictions were done on a subset of the most valuable players, who provide
at least 50% of the revenue (in this case 6.136 players).

METHODS
churn prediction in mobile social games A. Perianez, A. Saas, A. Guitart, and C. Magne. Churn prediction
in mobile social games: Towards a complete assessment using survival
ensembles. In 2016 IEEE International Conference on Data Science and
Advanced Analytics (DSAA), pages 564–573, Oct 2016, using
conditional inference survival ensembles T. Hothorn, K. Hornik, and A. Zeileis. Unbiased recursive partitioning:
A conditional inference framework. Journal of Computational and
Graphical Statistics, 15(3):651–674, 2006.
Based on survival
analysis  T. G. Clark, M. J. Bradburn, S. B. Love, and D. G. Altman. Survival
analysis part I: Basic concepts and first analyses. British Journal of
Cancer, 89(2):232–238, 2003, the model is capable of performing accurate
predictions even when the response variable is censored.

Outcome of methods:
Two additional models based on A. Perianez, A. Saas, A. Guitart, and C. Magne. Churn prediction
in mobile social games: Towards a complete assessment using survival
ensembles. In 2016 IEEE International Conference on Data Science and
Advanced Analytics (DSAA), pages 564–573, Oct 2016, are implemented to
perform predictions on the number of hours a user will play
and the level at which they will quit. The models are trained
on each of the following response variables:
• Playtime: How many seconds the user played the game.
• Level: Latest game level reached by the player.
In both cases, the censored variable is whether they churned
or not (churn is defined as not having logged in for 9 days).


RESULTS
The results show that the method based on conditional
inference survival ensembles is able to model churn both in
terms of playtime and level, predicting accurately at which
level a player will leave and how long they will play. This
indicates that the model is robust to different data distributions,
and applicable to different types of response variables

COMMENTS
Won the game data mining competition in 2017.
