SOURCE 
https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208108
https://9to5mac.com/2017/09/13/face-id-demo-fail-details/

AGENT 
Face ID is developed by Apple. It claims to be a more intuitive and
secure way to authenticate a user.

GOAL 
Face ID's goal is to provide a secure means of unlocking your iPhone. It
can also be used for purchasing items from iTunes Store, App Store, iBooks
Store and for payments with Apple Pay, and to sign in to applications.

DATA 
The application uses learning algorithms to learn the users features over
time. "The TrueDepth camera captures accurate face data by projecting and
analyzing over 30,000 invisible dots to create a depth map of your face and
also captures an infrared image of your face. A portion of the A11 Bionic
chip's neural engine — protected within the Secure Enclave — transforms the
depth map and infrared image into a mathematical representation and compares
that representation to the enrolled facial data."

METHODS 
The authentication method reacts to changes in appearances. If a change
is too great there is an option for authentication by using a passcode before
updating changes to the users appearance. 

The application is triggered when the iPhone screen is tapped, when a
notification wakes the screen, or when the iPhone is raised.

There are additional security measures including extra validation if the iPhone
has not been unlocked in 24 hours and if the iPhone in question has been
unlocked remotely. 

RESULTS 
During the first public demonstration of Face ID there was a slight
mishap; the iPhone would not unlock using face recognition. The iPhone in
question had been handled by a multiple of people before setting up for a live
demonstration by Craig Ferderighi. 

COMMENTS 
Apple claim that the “Face ID worked as it was designed to” as it
required a passcode to unlock. What worries me is that it was possible for the
faces of others to influence this at all (and apparently without their
knowledge during their handling of the iPhone).



