SOURCE 
https://www.faceapp.com/
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.faceapp&hl=en
https://techcrunch.com/2017/04/25/faceapp-apologises-for-building-a-racist-ai/
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/2017/04/25/faceapp-viral-selfie-app-racism-storm-hot-mode-lightens-skin/

AGENT 
FaceApp is a mobile application that was developed by Wireless Lab. 

GOAL 
It uses neural networks to transform photographs of faces into very
realistic alternate versions. The official website boasts that it can
"transform your face using artificial intelligence with just one tap". The
application allows the user to alter images to add a smile, change gender, look
older, look younger and look "more attractive". The latter being the most
controversial of all the filters.

DATA 
FaceApp uses a combination of its own training data and open-source
libraries including TensorFlow. Goncharov has been recorded as admitting that
the training data for determining desirability was the company's own training
data.  He has admitted that the training data had biases. "We are deeply sorry
for this unquestionably serious issue. It is an unfortunate side-effect of the
underlying neural network caused by the training set bias, not intended
behaviour."

METHODS 
The applications used a combination of machine learning algorithms
alongside photo editing algorithms.

RESULTS 
The application received feedback from users stating that it was
"racist" when it came to determining how "hotness" should be characterised.
When used by black people, the filter automatically brightened the users' skin
tone. The companies first relabelled the filter to "spark" instead of its
previous name "hotness", and then later removed the filter completely. Wireless
Lab claim to be currently working on a fix for this filter.

COMMENT
I don't feel that Wire Lab immediately learned and grew from their negative
publicity due to other controversies regarding claims of racism. The
application also offered a Bob Marley filter, which transformed users' skin
tones. This filter was offered alongside similar filters that changes skin
tones according to certain ethnicities (these filters were later removed).
Regardless of how it is handled, there will always be sensitivity around topics
that reference skin colour or ethnicity. Perhaps the filters would have been
more successful if user's were presented with a sort-of dial or gradient, where
users' could choose their own colour for skin tone instead of predefined
categories. This would provide options for both realistic and unrealistic skin
tones alike, thus implying neutrality. 
