SOURCE
Louis Colombus, Forbes, june,2016
Machine Learning Is Redefining the Enterprise In 2016
https://www.forbes.com/sites/louiscolumbus/2016/06/04/machine-learning-is-redefining-the-enterprise-in-2016/#3f93c43f1871

AGENT
Forbes. Most of the global enterprises have cantered their corporate strategy on digital transformation. Forbes uses applications, algorithms and frameworks to gather information from a huge amount of structured and unstructured data such audio, visuals, texts, voice, body language and facial expression that occur. This developes room for a wider dimension of applications and algorithms ranging from healthcare to video games and even self-driving cars. 

GOAL
Using historical data, ML will help businesses grow by basing their decisions on business models with the best outcome. 
ML will lead businesses into environmentss with minimum human error and stronger cyber security.ML will completely enable new interactions between customers and companies and eventually allow true intelligent enterprise.

DATA
Historical data and information based on business models, data based on human error, business environments and cyber security.

METHODS
Even though machines can automate lengthy and repetitive tasks, thses machines also be used to predict the outcome of new data. 
This predictive information data is used to determine and make decisions. Organisations heavily rely on suchpredictions to improve their businesses prospects and reduce the risk taken in decision making as it minimises human error. Behaviour signals in human beings heavily impact prediction algorithms.
The more the user shares with the algorithm the better the prediction becomes, one example is streaming platforms such as Netflix and Amazon prime where, depending on the users behaviour, the platform can recommend and advertise content. 
These algorithms define a strategy to drive desired sales and market outcomes. Business processes will also become automated and as the business changes these algorithms will constantly update and adapt themselves to the changes in business. 

RESULTS
Machine Learning is improving enterpirses prospects according to most companies who are applying machine learning to sales, marketing and any relatable area of business in general where machine learning can be applied. With machine learning, companies are gaining a greater predictive accuracy. According to the Accenture institute of higher performance, seventy six percent of the companies that use machine learning claimed to be targeting a higher sales growth in the world of today.

COMMENTS
In the area of business, Machine Learning is highly useful in creating strong predictive algorithms, analysing user preferences, market research opportunies, competitor statistics and other significant areas of improvements. These all contribute to the benefit of improving enterprises in making them more accurate, successful and efficient in the world of business today.