SOURCE
https://www.thewebmaster.com/seo/2016/apr/5/spam-algorithms-incorporate-machine-learning/
AGENT
Agent was not specified in this study
GOAL
To provide a comprehensive machine learning algorithms comparison within the Web spam detection community.
DATA
Two public web spam datasets were available, WEBSPAM-UK2006 and WEBSPAM-UK2007, both datasets provided 2 evaluated sets, set 1 was used for training and set 2 was used for testing
METHODS
Support Vector Machine - SVM 19 discriminates a set of high-dimension features using a or sets of hyperplanes that gives the largest minimum distance to separates all data points among classes. Multilayer Perceptron Neural Network - MLP 29 is a non-linear feed-forward network model which maps a set of inputs x onto a set of outputs y using multi weights connections. Bayesian Network - A BN 26 is a probabilistic graphical model for reasoning under uncertainty, where the nodes represent discrete or continuous variables and the links represent the relationships between them. Decision Tree - DT 39 decides the target class of a new sample based on selected features from available data using the concept of information entropy. The nodes of the tree are the attributes, each branch of the tree represents a possible decision and the end nodes or leaves are the classes. Random Forest - RF 13 works by constructing multiple decision trees on various sub-samples of the datasets and output the class that appear most often or mean predictions of the decision trees. Nave Bayes - The Nave Bayes 41 classifier is a classification algorithm based on Bayes theorem with strong independent assumptions between features. K-nearest Neighbour - KNN 2 is an instance-based learning algorithm that store all available data points and classifies the new data points based on similarity measure such as distance. Adaptive Boosting (AdaBoost) - The weights of incorrectly labelled data points are adjusted in AdaBoost such that the following classifiers focus more on incorrectly labelled or difficult cases 24. LogitBoost - LogitBoost 25 is actually an extension of AdaBoost where it applies the cost function logistic regression to AdaBoost, thus it classifies by using a regression scheme as base learner. Real AdaBoost - Unlike most Boosting algorithms which returns binary valued classes (Discrete AdaBoost), Real AdaBoost 42 outputs a real valued probability of the class. Bagging - Bagging 12 is a method by generating several training sets of the same size and use the same machine learning algorithm to build model of them and combine the predictions by averaging. It is often improve the accuracy and stability of the classifier. Dagging - Dagging 45 generates a number of disjoint and stratified folds out of the data and feeds each chunk of data to a copy of the machine learning classifier. Majority vote is done for predictions since all the generated machine learning classifier are put into the voted Meta classifier. Dagging is useful for base classifiers that are quadratic or worse in time behaviour on the number of instances in the training data. Rotation Forest - The rotation forest 40 is constructed using a number of the same machine learning classifier typically decision tree independently and trained on a new set of trained features form by sub-sampling of the datasets with principal component analysis applied on each sub-sets.
RESULTS
Web Spam detection is also known as binary classification problem (spam or non-spam), thus the area under receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) is used as evaluation metrics. The receiver characteristic curve is determined by plotting true positive rate vs the false positive rate in various threshold value. AUC is a measure for accuracy and also a performance metric for logistic regression. Most algorithms performed well with the idnedifcation of spam, with a rate of between 60% and 80%, however  random forest has outperform other classifiers including SVM which widely used in Web spam community as much as  0.927 in WEBSPAM-UK2006 and 0.850 in WEBSPAM-UK2007 AUC
COMMENTS
Since this study was performed, google has taken more steps to ensure the proper filteration of spam, and claims that Gmail can correctly detect 99% of all spam emails
