SOURCE
Louis Colombus, Machine Learning Is Redefining the Enterprise In 2016
https://www.forbes.com/sites/louiscolumbus/2016/06/04/machine-learning-is-redefining-the-enterprise-in-2016/#3f93c43f1871

AGENT
Forbes, june,2016

GOAL
Using historical data, ML will help businesses grow by basing their decisions on business models with the best outcome. 
ML will lead businesses into environs with minimum human error and stronger cyber security.ML will completely enable new interactions between customers and companies and eventually allow true intelligent enterprise.
Most of the global enterprises have cantered their corporate strategy on digital transformation. 
Machine learning is a major part of this transformation. Applications, Algorithms and frameworks learn from a huge amount of structured and unstructured data such as Text, image, video, voice, body language and facial expression.  This creates room for a wider dimension of applications and algorithms ranging from healthcare to video games and self driving cars. 

DATA
Enterprises use historical data within their coppany to train and algorithms and predict future outcomes.

METHODS

While machines can automate lengthy and repetitive tasks, they can also be used to predict the outcome of new data. 
This predicted data is used to make decisions. Companies rely on these predictions to advance their businesses and reduce the risk taken in decision making as it minimises human error.
 Prediction algorithms rely heavily on behaviour signals. 
The more the user shares with the algorithm the better the prediction becomes, one example is streaming platforms such as Netflix and Amazon prime where, depending on the users behaviour, the platform can recommend and advertise content. 
These algorithms define a strategy to drive desired sales and market outcomes. Business processes will also become automated and as the business changes these algorithms will constantly update and adapt themselves. These business processes range across a wide spectrum of contract management, customer service, finance, legal, quality assurance, pricing and production. 

RESULTS
ML in is changing enterprises for the better according to most companies who are applying machine learning to sales and marketing. 
With machine learning, companies are gaining a greater predictive accuracy. 
According to the Accenture institute of higher performance, 76% of the companies that use machine learning claimed to be targeting a higher sales growth.

COMMENTS
with the increase in the use of machine learning within enterprises, a rise in competition between the companies is also present. This forces companies to consider advancing their technologies to increase sales as well as predict future outcomes.
